Hi everybody, welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
If you're joining for the first time today, I'm Rachel, and it's great to meet you.
If this is your first Hangout, this is an open space for the whole data science community
to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing, and what's going
on in the world of data science.
The sessions are recorded and shared to YouTube as well as the rstudio Data Science Hangout
site, so you can always go back and re-watch or find helpful resources too.
We also have a LinkedIn group that Tyler or Hannah will share in just a second here in
the chat.
If you ever want to continue a certain discussion or meet people from today as well, together
we're all dedicated to creating this welcoming environment for everybody.
We love when everybody can participate in these and we can hear from everyone.
So there's three ways that you can ask questions today.
You can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom and I can call on you.
You can put questions into the Zoom chat and feel free to just put a little star next to
your question if you wanted me to read it instead, if it's maybe loud where you are
or something.
But we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously as well.
Just like to reiterate, we love to hear from everybody, no matter your level of experience
or area of work as well.
And all of these questions asked today are up to you.
I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host for today, Yvonne Carrillo-Dominguez, Data
Engineering Manager at Vixel.
Yvonne, I'd love to just start by having you introduce yourself and maybe sharing a little
bit about your work and the company that you work at as well.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you for inviting me to hang out with you.
I was feeling a little bit of imposter syndrome because I was like, I'm not a data scientist.
I don't know what I can contribute, but I hope this is helpful and productive for you
all.
And well, about my role, I am Data Engineering Manager, as Rachel said, and my role is similar
to the manager roles that you will see in small companies because we are a small company
and also the data team is still small and we are growing it little by little.
And what that means for me is that I am leading a team and also mentoring them, but I'm also
still in some contracts, I will work as an individual contributor as well.
So I am a data engineer in one of the contracts, while at the same time leading a team of data
analysts, engineers, and scientists, so it's like all together.
So that's in a nutshell, or in a high level, what I do here at Big Cell.
Well, about Big Cell, we are a company that we do consultancy work for the federal government,
so most of our contracts are for the government.
There are opportunities as well for the private sector, and I think that's where we are leading
right now, but yeah, the kind of work that we do is digital services for learning, for marketing,
communications, the technology part that is the biggest part, while we do content systems and web
applications, and then, of course, the data team.
Yeah, that's what we do.
Awesome.
Thank you.
And while we wait for questions to come in from the audience here, I'm curious, what's something
that you're most excited about in the data space in the next year or so?
Well, one of the things that I am seeing, and mostly in the federal government, where I have
more experience, is that some years ago, most of the agencies were in the point where they had a
lot of data, but they didn't know what to do with it, or how to ingest it in the cloud, how to
analyze it, they just know that there were some data, and now what I am seeing is that a lot of
agencies already have some sort of report system, or a dashboard, or a data pipeline, and they are
in another phase, but they want to do more things with that, so they want to start, like for real,
making decisions using data, so data-driven decisions, and using it also to lead, or to use it
for, to make policy changes, so that's something that I really like, and I'm really excited, and
also I'm seeing more opportunities for machine learning and predictions, something that I
remember, like even two years ago, most of the projects were still in the point where they needed
a data pipeline, so now it's like in the other stage, so I'm really excited about that.
That's great, thank you. I said I was going to start asking this question after last week as
well, but I wanted to ask people so we can get to know them a little bit better,
but what's something that you like to do in your free time outside of work?
So, what I do, I am, I'm not a super fun person, but well, I have a dog, and I like to hang out with her
and walk her, but one of the things that I also like is to cook and to bake, and I think that's
something that I was doing before the pandemic, but definitely like since the pandemic, that also,
that grew exponentially, and another thing about me is that I am a vegan, so one of the things that
I like is to veganize like dishes, and for example, I am from Mexico, so the Mexican cuisine is like
very, can be very vast, but many of the dishes has meat, so try to make them without meat is
something that I really like, so that's something that I do, yep. Nice, thank you. That's, that's
funny because Adam said last week that cooking was his, his side, or what he liked to do out of
work as well. I see, Tanya, you asked a great question in the chat. Do you want to jump in and
ask that live? Yeah, sure, and I'll probably tag team with Libby's question too, because it's kind
of all in the same vein, so you, you mentioned that you are an individual contributor and a data
engineer manager, and I'm just curious, how do you balance your time between these two different
roles? I imagine it's kind of going from one mentality of doing to thinking more high level,
so I'm curious how you navigate that, and then Libby asks a great question too of which do you like better?
That's interesting. It depends on the day, but yeah, I think the thing that I enjoy the most is to
mentor people and to share my knowledge, and since I still need to put my hands on the code
and work with a team as an individual contributor, I learn a lot there, so that's something
that I try to take advantage of. I mean, in a contract, I will always
meet people that know more than me and they do things differently as well, so that's something
that I like about that, that I can take and then share that with the rest of the team. I think
at this point, I'm starting to enjoy more the manager role rather than the, I think right now,
the two of them can have stressful times, but the kind of problems that I have when I am
a mentor or a manager, I think I enjoy more, like I'm more excited about that,
and well, as I see sometimes, the work or the stress is about setting up an environment, and
I really enjoy that. Before, right now, I'm like, no, I don't know if I want to spend my time
or most of my time on that. I still like that, but one of the things that I
get to do as a manager is also like the design solutions or solutions are architecting, and that,
in that role, I need to investigate new technologies, new tech stack, so I need to set
up that environment, but it is a new thing and I am learning and I am figuring out if that's
the best solution or not, so that part I like. When it is as an IT, it's different. Sometimes, it's
kind of, if you're in a contract, it's going to be the same tech stack until the contract ends,
and as I say, I still like that and I get benefit of that, because I will
collaborate with people and I will learn a lot, so I still like that, but if I need to choose one,
I will go with the managerial.
I have a follow-up question, if that's okay. So, Elon Musk put out that thing that was like,
you have to be an engineer in order to be an engineering manager. What do you think about
that? Do you think that having the technical background is really important to your ability
to lead these engineers and mentor people, or do you think that you would still be good at it if
you didn't have a technical background? I think you will still be good at it.
It helps me, because I can understand some of the problems and I can also help to be the bridge
between the data analyst and the infrastructure engineers, for example, or other software
engineers. I have that background and it helps, but I think the most important thing is to be
empathetic with people and have listening skills. There are other things when you are
doing people management that are maybe more important, and I know there are, especially in the
IT field, there are engineers that want the engineer manager to know more than them,
but that's not always going to be possible. I have some background doing almost all my
career as a software engineer, but now that I am going towards being a manager,
organically, I won't be able to be in contact, so I won't have that deep-down knowledge,
so I think it's not, we shouldn't give a lot of weight to that, and if you don't know something,
that's okay, and you can lead that person to the person that will know or that will
mentor that person with that specific skill or get some formal educational training for them,
and so there are other ways that you can solve that or navigate that.
If your role as an engineer manager has the solution architecting part, that's different,
because, well, maybe for that, yeah, you need that background, but otherwise,
no, so there are different types of managers, so it can be very technical or not. In my case,
it is more technical, but I think what makes a great manager is that they have these people
management skills for sure. Awesome. Zoom has never done this to me, but for some reason,
I can see everybody's faces, but the rest of the Zoom controls have left somewhere.
It just updated today, right when I joined, so I think it's something with that, but we're good. I
can unmute, so I know that we had talked a little bit earlier, Yvonne, about benefits of being a
data professional when talking to senior leadership, and I was curious if you could
give us a little more information about what you mean by that. Yeah, so I've seen that senior
leadership, so the C-level MVPs like to talk with data professionals because they feel like we are
more flexible or we can give the information faster, but I think what happens is that, when
we want to explain something, we're very good at using visual information as opposed to just
talking, so if I want to present a solution and I know what they want to hear, they want to hear
time, resources, money, and I can put that in a nice chart, because that's what we do all the
time, and so they can see it right away, all the information that they need, and I think that's
one of the benefits of being a data professional, that if you need to share some information or to
inform or to lead some people to some decision, you can do that with a dashboard, a chart,
and it's not like you don't need to talk. Obviously, you will need to explain things, but
even then, whenever they ask questions, the information is there, so you can just point to
that, like, okay, this is the money that you're going to save, or this is the time that we call
save as well, so yeah, that's something that I'm seeing, and it's not that I do, that I see
that with other people in my team as well, that whenever they want to talk with other teams,
they always prepare a dashboard very quickly, just like a workflow, for example.
When we talk with infrastructure engineers as well, we have the workflow. Maybe we won't know
exactly the services that we want, but we can say, I need some storage here. I need to run some R or
Python script here, and I need to other storage here, and I need some sort of database here, and
they can know or suggest, and we can work easier with them, so that kind of collaboration is always
easier when you have those visuals, and I think that's something that we do it
very fast, or since this is what we do, like to share information with visuals, like that's
something that we leverage that when also contributing or collaborating with other teams.
That's a great tip to think about for people who are in other functions of the business as well.
I see there was a question on Slido a bit earlier that was, when you get to your desk
in the morning and start your workday, what's the first thing you think about?
Well, the meetings, the meetings that I work out of the day, yeah, and
sometimes I have very nice days when I just have one meeting and that's all,
but yeah, that's what I do to plan my day, and
so the hours that I don't have any meetings, sometimes I block that time, like this is my
focus time and I need to work, and so that's one of the things that I do to plan my day, like
meetings versus focus time, but also if I have a pending thing with one of my team members,
I know that they are working on something. Maybe somebody asked them an estimation or
like they need to do something and I know that it's like time sensitive. I plan some time also
just to check in and see if they need some support, and if not, yeah, all day is going to be just
focus time. Thank you. I see, Justin, you had asked a question, or it sounds like someone was
about to jump in. Do you want to jump in with that question, Justin?
Yeah, sure. Hi, everyone. Rachel, thanks for putting these together. These were great. This
is my first time joining, so really thanks for joining. I'm in the city of Baltimore, and
my question is basically around like, you know, a lot of folks who get into data science are
like really eager to use kind of new tools, machine learning, but like, and I expect this
to happen in industry too, but particularly in government, there's only, we get kind of
constrained about like what we can actually use. It has to be either sanctioned by IT
or at least needs to meet certain guidelines and parameters, and not everyone knows how to use
those tools, so how do you manage kind of those expectations for folks about, you know, yeah,
that looks like a great tool, but like these three things over here are the ones that our company
uses or that the government uses to get our work done. Do you run into those kind of frustrations,
or yeah, how do you manage that? Yeah, so there are like different reasons why that will happen,
so the first one is just budget, so if they already have a license, let's say that they
have a Tableau license, but we see that we could do it with Power BI because they use SharePoint,
for example, but then it's like they don't have that license, and it's just budget, and to
get approval for tools, and yeah, money can take time, so that's something that we need to adapt,
like that's the tool that they have, and if we see that we can get the approval within time,
we will take the risk. Otherwise, we just go with the tools that they have approved,
approved, and yeah, just work around that, and another part is what you were mentioning,
that they already have some tools that they know, and they are used to that, and it's hard to make
them make the move. Maybe some people really want to change, but they know that some users
will have some resistance to do that change, and not everybody is on the technology
side. They are not very tech savvy, so we need to understand that part as well, that they have
a job that is not related with technology, so it's going to be hard to move
a whole group of people to go to another tool, so it depends on the audience as well,
on how big of the audience it is, because one of the things that we do as well is precisely
learning services, so we can prepare, or we can propose that, to prepare some
trainings, some documentation that they can use, so we can use another tool, but the reason
it's going to be, or it should be always, because it is cost-effective, so we are going to do it
faster, or it's going to be easier to maintain. Sometimes, they are proposing things that will
require a whole team on their side just to maintain that infrastructure or software,
and we can propose something that is going to be just easier to maintain, and so at the end of the
day, it's more cost-effective, so that's one thing, and most people will like that, so if it is going
to save them time and money, they are always going to like that, but then it's the other part that
they need some training or education, so that's something that we can also mitigate by providing
those services as well, and there are people that are just afraid to change because
they feel that it's going to take more time to change all this, and that is, at the end of the day,
that's money, and maybe they don't have that, but if we really do the diligence to do that
discovery and say, okay, no, at the beginning, yes, it's going to take more time, but then you are going to
save all this, so that's something that we could do, and sometimes it's just a no from their side.
Maybe they didn't get the approval, and in that case, we just need to tell them what is
going to happen, like, okay, we are going to use your tools and your methodologies, but we are not going
to be able to deliver all the things that you want, so with those restrictions, this is what we can
deliver, and explaining to them why, like we cannot just work with that or we cannot
optimize or modernize your system if we have those limits. We can just do
like these three things, for example, and most clients will understand that because they know
that there's not much they can do as well. It's a really helpful phrase, too. With those
restrictions, this is what we can deliver. It looks like in the chat there are a lot of people
that are experiencing this as well and are saying they feel your pain, Justin, so I'd love to
stay on this topic a little bit longer if other people have gone through this and have
other things to share as well.
Not to call on anyone, I know David, you mentioned that you've had to do this and Evan.
Sorry, Rachel, I was trying to multitask here while you were asking that question, but yeah,
definitely. For those who don't know, I work at NASA, and we've been trying to implement a lot
of different tools, and it's been a long, arduous journey over the last three or four years just
trying to get an infrastructure set up, so it's definitely not an easy task within the government
at times, and I'm sure the industry is the same way. But we've been able to do a lot of things
I'm sure the industry is the same way, but there's always a group that wants to use no-code,
low-code type tools and just buy a vendor, which for some of the organizations in our agency that
have the funding, maybe that's easy to do because they can spend that kind of money on a tool such
as Alteryx, which costs us $5,000 a user per year, but my organization with little funds,
we need to be able to do things with coding, so it's definitely just a matter of keeping
the conversation going and showing the value of open-source technologies and other resources
rather than some of these no-code, low-code type tools, so it's not easy, but it can be done.
Thanks, David. Yeah, I see there's a lot of great conversation happening in the chat
around that as well, so if anybody else wants to weigh in, always
feel free to raise your hand here on Zoom too.
I see Jamie, you have your hand raised. You want to jump in?
Sure, yeah, just a brief note, two minutes to add to that. Also coming from a public
setting, I'm in Toronto with a hospital group. We've recently been exploring some more
container-based tech stacks, largely for this reason, to give sort of the flexibility that
some of our engineers and scientists may want, although at other expenses too, like if everyone's
using their own language and own frameworks, it can become unmaintainable as well.
Other quick note, I've been kind of surprised by my own hiring, how much a tech stack and a job
description can influence what kind of candidates you receive too. I was trying really hard to
hire a developer at one point and just changing the tech stack to something that was more
appealing to industry at the time completely changed how kind of candidates we had.
That's a very good point, like hiring IT people is hard and when you are in a public sector,
it's just harder for sure. I see there are a few other questions coming through on Slido as well
and Yvonne, what are some of the hardest problems you find yourself trying to solve
over and over again, where it feels like we don't have any good solutions available yet?
Oh, that's an interesting question.
I don't know, something that I've seen a lot is a lot of agencies needed that data pipeline
and so they can consolidate all the information in one place and while I know that a lot of
agencies have moved on to the next stage, that's something that was very repetitive
and I think the challenge was exactly what we were talking about, how you can make this data
pipeline with those limitations. So, for example, sometimes the client doesn't want to go to the
cloud, so you need to do it, but they want it somehow to be optimized and maybe not automated,
but the process needs to be optimized and some of the parts are automated, so that was very
challenging and it's not an isolated case, like that happens a lot,
but at the end of the day, there is a solution for that, we can just work around that.
I don't know about a challenging problem that we probably find out a solution,
I mean as an IT as a whole, I don't know, I will think about that and if I think I'm
in a better answer, I will definitely go back to that.
Thank you very much. I see Sam, you asked a question in the chat, I think it has a star
there, so I'll read it, but it's have you worked on projects where you inherited technical debt
and how have you tackled that to obtain a more future-proof solution?
Yeah, sometimes there are projects that are just too good to pass on, but it is
like somebody started it, so you are inheriting it and then when you see the code, you are going
to see a lot of to-do's in there and it's like, okay, good, it makes sense. Also, we have done
work that needs to be done from scratch and given the circumstances, there are some unknowns,
so I understand that part, but yeah, I think the challenge sometimes is to know
why they took some decisions on why they are doing this tool, why there are
those to-do's. Sometimes, they don't make sense with the final infrastructure or the whole solution
and yeah, I guess it's just tackle one by one, because there's always going to be that
technical debt. I think in one of the contracts that I remember that was very successful at that
is that we had some overlap with the previous contractor, so they were able to tell us exactly
what that tech debt was there. These are the things that we didn't have time to do or that,
because of priorities, we never got to this, and then we were able to have all those
in tickets and then prioritize that. From what we heard, what they shared, this is what we need to
work on right now before we jump into the actual work, and the rest is going to be just little by
little, and some of those tickets or things are not going to apply anymore sometimes, because
maybe we changed to another technology that we found was more cost-effective. Sometimes, we are
inheriting projects that are maybe not super old, but yeah, maybe ten years, and ten years
ago, the technology was very different, so yeah, this will be obviously more
or better tools that we can just change, so yeah, some of the tech debt is not going to apply
anymore, but I think if we have that opportunity to ask the previous contractor,
we will have that and then prioritize. If not, then at the beginning, when we try to host that
or to replicate the infrastructure is when we are going to see the biggest things that we need to
tackle, and the hidden ones are those to-dos in the code, because you don't see it right away,
but one thing that you could do is just try to find them. Just look at all the to-dos in the code
and see if you can identify one of those that are really big or important. You're not going to,
in some cases, maybe most of them, or you're not going to be able to tackle all of them.
Sometimes, this is really huge, but yeah, I guess just prioritize and focus on the big ones.
Thank you. I'd love to hear a little bit more about your journey as well, and you're
jumping from generalist software engineer to specialized data engineer and what that was like.
Yeah, so I graduated as a computer systems engineer, and at the beginning, I didn't know
what to do. I didn't know what the industry was offering to begin with, so I was just saying
yes to any offer, like whatever life was throwing at me, and so I had the opportunity to have very
different jobs, so at the beginning, I was a front-end developer, so I was migrating an
application. I will sound very old, but yeah, that was a standalone application in a mainframe, so
with green screens and that, I was migrating that to the web, and so I learned some web development
that later on didn't help me a lot, because I was using technology that is not used anymore,
but I was using Java, and Java really helped me out later. From that, I jumped to be a tester, so I
was doing software validation for aircraft engines, so a whole new thing, and then I jumped into the
retail sector doing back-end for an operating system, so there, I was using Java as well,
and some C or C++, so it was more like low-level programming, and that helped me a lot with my
programming skills, because that's where, since it was a very low level, and it was like programming
like the signals that the keyboard sends to the operating system, things like that, you need to
use a lot of like linked lists, arrays, vectors, so all those data structures that I was like, I'm not
going to use this when I work. Well, I was using all of those, but that helped me with my coding
skills. Then, all of that was in Mexico, and I also was a data engineer in Mexico. That was my
last job, and then I moved to the United States, and I, at that point, I knew I wanted to work with
data, because I really liked that. It wasn't like as low-level as operating system, and
but still, I got to use those coding skills to be parsing data, so I really liked that,
but when I was here, I knew that I needed to get any opportunity that I have, and I was,
I learned some web application, web development frameworks like Ruby on Rails, PHP on Django,
and PHP with Drupal, and Go, like different stacks there, and so I felt that I was like moving around.
I also was in the infrastructure team for a while, so I was learning a lot, and that
was helping me to get or to be put into contracts, because I was able to do a lot of
stuff. Maybe I wasn't very knowledgeable in anything, but I knew a lot. I mean, it was very
wide, not deep, but I really wanted to go, so one, go back to data, and two, start specializing
in something. I felt like, okay, I enjoyed all that, like learning all those skills,
but I was seeing other people that they really know a lot of what they know, so I wanted to be
like that, so whenever I was able to be in data contracts, because I wanted to
to keep working for the federal government, so to do that, you need some clearances, especially
when you are seeing data, and to do that, I needed to be a US resident, so finally, I became one,
and I was able to move to the data field again, and that's when I started specializing more,
and yeah, I really like that, because there's just too much to learn in all these
fields, like infrastructure, front-end, back-end, and it can get crazy sometimes, and just in data,
there's a lot to learn as well, but at least I'm more focused now on what I want to do or where
I want to go. That's great. Thank you, and I agree with Libby. Love to hear the generalist
versus specialist conversation. I see Victor, you had asked a question in the chat. Do you want to
jump in? And I can read the question to it. It was, what should be the roadmap to data science
based on your experience? And Victor, I'm curious of what perspective that's coming from,
like just starting to learn data science or which role you're in now?
I think it's mute. Yeah, I think it's, yeah, I don't know if I really can answer that,
but I will tell any person that wants to go to data science is, well, first find a mentor
that can really help you or guide you in that part, but as a data engineer, I will encourage
you to use cloud tools to learn that part. I know that data engineering may not be
the career path that you want to go, but you will always need some data engineering skills,
especially if you want to show something or to prototype something, and you can be able to do
that yourself. Just small projects, you don't have to start with big data, but obviously,
if the scope of the project is huge, you will need a lot of teams. You need data engineers,
infrastructure engineers, but just to know what all the teams do, I think that's going to be very
helpful when you want to collaborate with others, so it will help you to collaborate and also
to do your research or analysis yourself easier, because you won't depend on anyone, so you can
start using some tools, like, for example, if you want to use AWS, you can start using S3 for
storage and maybe start playing around with Athena or with Glue for transforming the data,
and then when you want that, so you want to show a proof of concept, maybe someone can take that
and scale that, and yeah, I think as a data scientist, you still need to clean your data
anyway, so I think that's a part that I can't talk about. I know that there are other skills, like
statistics or data analysis, but that's not my area of expertise. I just really encourage you
to grow also in your data engineering skills. That will make you a more solid data scientist,
maybe at the beginning, you need to focus on other skills, but if you want to jump into the
industry, you will always need to do something in a small scale. That's really helpful. Thank you.
I know, Mandeep, you had asked a question a little bit earlier in the chat. Do you want to jump in
and ask that? Yeah, for sure. Hi, everybody. My question is around the languages. You talked
a lot about a variety of languages that you've worked with, and languages are similar and
dissimilar in different ways. Do you have a framework when jumping between the different
languages, and if so, what is the first thing that you look at when you're looking at a new
language that you're going to use, or a new framework within AWS, for example? What are
you looking for? Yeah, that's a really good question. When I need to learn a new language,
the first thing that I want to see is the data types. They can change slightly between languages,
but that's the first thing that you need to work with, with variables. So, if you have a text,
it's going to be a string or it's going to be another name. If you have a boolean, it's going
to be just bool or boolean, just to know the data types, and then the flow, the syntax to do those
flows, like the if, for, while, or switch case, or other. I forgot the name of what those are
called, but yeah, how to do those flows, because yeah, as well, they change between languages,
and they have slide changes sometimes. It's for, and then the name of your temporary variable,
and then colon, and the list, and sometimes it's between parentheses, and you need to do it
all the way around. Just knowing that can let you start with that. So, at the beginning,
my code is super basic. It will have a lot of if and fors, and maybe that's all, but little by
little, I started learning more of the ways of optimizing the code, but I think that's the very,
very first thing that I do or try to learn, and one of the things that you also need to do,
especially in data, is just open a file, open a CSV, open an Excel file, open a JSON file. So,
that's something that I will do next. So, how am I going to read a JSON file? So, I try to learn
that. So, what is the code that I will use? If it is Python, for example, you will do it with Pandas.
They're just like a very easy function to do that, and that brings me to another thing.
Sometimes the language is not specialized to handle data. For example, Python with R,
like that's specifically for doing statistics and data, so it's very easy to use for that,
but Python wasn't created for data. So, that's another thing that you will need to do, like what
are the libraries that are used for data analysis? So, okay, it is Python, and then you will say,
okay, there's NumPy, there's Pandas, and then try to see the documentation and what are the
things that you can do with the data. So, that will be maybe the last thing I will do, and then
it's just practice, just practice and trying to get better at it.
Thank you. I see there are a few Slido questions that touch upon a similar
idea, and one was asking about what your tech stack looks like,
and then the other is around preferences for data visualization and why.
Sure. So, for tech stack, it depends on the contract I am working on. So, yeah, I don't have
like one specific one. In Vixel, we try to push to use AWS, and we have this, the infrastructure,
we did like an environment that we can reproduce, so we are using Terraform,
so that's why we like that. So, if we know that we are going to need some extra buckets, maybe
a way to transform the data with AWS Glue or Lambda and then another storage, we can deploy
that infrastructure very quickly because we have that already in Terraform. So, that's what we try
to use, and also it has all the requirements that some federal contracts require that are
like the security compliances like FedRAMP, for example. So, if we are free to use any tech stack,
we are going to use AWS for sure, and for doing the ETL or the extract and form load process,
we tend to use Python just because it's easier to deploy that to AWS, and it's always easier
to find people that know Python. At some point, we were leaning more into R, but it was hard to
find people. It was harder to, especially like two years ago, it was harder to use it in the cloud.
Right now, it is getting better. For the data visualization tools, well, I like Shiny. I've
worked with Shiny on RStudio, and it's just very fun. It's very fun to work with and trying to
make your charts and visualizations prettier and interactive. I really enjoyed working with that
one, so I recommend that one just because it's fun, because I really like it, and you can customize
it as much as you need. Sometimes, when you're using a tool like Power BI or Tableau and then
the customer is like, oh, I want to have my branding and my theming, sometimes it's not as
easy to customize it as much as the client wants, but it also depends on the time or the resources
that you have. If you have limited time, sometimes Tableau is the easiest
way to go, and also it's the one that the client knows the most, so if we can do it our way,
maybe we're going to go, and we have unlimited time, we will need to decide between doing it
with Shiny or maybe a React application. It also depends on who is going to do it,
but my favorite one, it will be Shiny and Tableau.
Thank you very much. One other follow-up question I think someone had asked around
sharing APIs with inside and outside of the organization. Is there a certain tool that you use
for that? I'm not sure I understand the question.
Let me double-check. AJ, I see you asked that. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, so a lot of times, you have great tables, logic built into tables, your suppliers,
or people within cross-functionally want to get their hands on that data,
but they're huge files, right? They're tables that get refreshed every so often,
so is there a way you prefer sharing those big data files internally or externally,
like through API tools? I don't know if AWS has those technology.
Yeah, so yeah, that's also a good question. We've been in projects where it's just easy to
push that data to GitHub or GitLab, but that's not really best practice. Maybe that's something
you could do when you are in the prototyping phase, especially if it is private data that
you cannot share, that you shouldn't share that, like never in GitHub, but
we have used two options there, so just upload the data into S3 and give access to the people
that need to have access, and with S3, that's a good tool because it is reliable and it's scalable,
and it's scalable, so you can just upload as much data as you want,
and you can also restrict the data depending on what people can see, so you can assign roles
to the people and they will only see what they need to see, so that's a good solution,
and another one that we have used, and this is if people that are not very technical are
going to be participating, we use SharePoint because we use a lot of Microsoft tools,
so we have Teams and Outlook, so a lot of people are already familiar, I mean,
within Bixel, they're already familiar with SharePoint, so that's a tool that we are going
to use, and you can also restrict the data. I think we will prefer S3, but depending on the
people that we are going to be collaborating with, maybe we are going to be using SharePoint,
and then when you are setting up your environment, we know where to go to download the data,
and if it is S3, you can just call it from your code. If you have access,
you just need your AWS keys and you can just programmatically download that data. If it is
SharePoint, I think there's a way to do it. We haven't used those, but that's something to explore,
and also, we use a lot of web applications. We use Drupal, which is a PHP framework for
content management, and if we need to download data from there or to use content that is in there,
if the web application is within the company, so Bixel developers are maintaining it,
we can ask them to create an API for us, so Drupal has the ability to enable the API,
and then we can use it, or we can request them exactly what data we need, and they will
implement that endpoint for us, and then we just use it. So, I think those are the three
options that we use when we need to share information internally.
I hope that answers your question. Thank you. Oh, yeah, that was great. Thank you.
And Jorge, I see you asked a question in the Zoom chat
around data engineering positions. Do you want to jump in and ask that?
Yeah, sure. Yeah, yeah, that's fine. Sorry. So, the question is regarding just when I was
transitioning from developer to working in machine learning, I came across a lot of positions that
were in data engineering, and oftentimes, when I had the conversation with the – sorry, I think
my camera's locked. Oftentimes, when I had a conversation with a recruiter, as soon as they
heard that I didn't have experience in, like, Spark or any of the other distributed computing
systems, MapReduce, all of those, I only covered it in grad school. I didn't use it in, like,
any job, so they just immediately lost interest, and they said, no, we just need interest – you
know, we need people with experience in those, and that was it, right? So, do you find experience
in those frameworks necessary to be a data engineer? So, you will learn that, but to –
when I am hiring people for a data engineer position, I focus more on the programming skills.
If you are a good engineer, you will learn Spark or MapReduce in no time. Like, seriously, it's not –
I wouldn't want to lose a good engineer because of one skill. Yeah, no, I don't think – I mean,
it is necessary in terms of you will end up using them, but in my opinion, I wouldn't
say no to a person that I know is good, and I can teach them or mentor them in these
frameworks. When I started, like, my first job as a data engineer, I didn't know any of those. I
didn't know what big data was or MapReduce or Spark. I had a lot of experience with Java.
That's why they hired me, because they were like, okay, she knows Java. She knows how to program.
That's more important, and I think I agree with that, and that's the philosophy that I still
follow up to this moment, and so, yeah, programming skills, that's basic. You really need to know how
to use code, and if it is one programming language that it is more common in data, like
Java or Scala, Python or R, it's going to be better. If your programming language is more
like PHP or Ruby, those are good. I would really encourage you to learn Python, though,
but yeah, I don't feel those, like Spark or MapReduce, are really important or necessary
when you are looking for a job, although if you are having that experience,
maybe you can do a personal project and try to use, for example, if you know,
do you know Python? Yeah, no, I mean, I'm not in that position anymore,
right, but it was when I was transitioning. I often found it, and I wasn't specifically looking
for data engineering jobs. I was looking for machine learning engineer jobs, and sometimes
recruiters contacted me for data engineering jobs, and I thought that maybe that was a good
transition, right, like if I wanted to transfer, to transition, and it never, like it never panned
out because of that, because of that lack of experience, and so I just moved, so I jumped,
I was able to jump positions and went straight to working in machine learning.
So, it turns out better than, yeah, no, no, that's it, but yeah, but the idea is actually good,
like being a data engineer and then jump to machine learning. I think that makes sense.
But yeah, if anyone is in, like, in that position, first, I will try to show up my programming
skills, and if you have the time, like maybe do a personal project where you can use, for example,
if you know Python, then use PySpark, just play around with it so you can show that you know how
to use it, you know, I think what they are looking for that you have experience with concurrency
or parallel jobs, like what you are saying here, like distributed computer frameworks,
sometimes you need to think a bit differently, but if you start, like, playing around and
reading about that, like that will give you a better opportunity to learn that job.
I love Brittany's comment in the chat. Brittany didn't mean to put you on the spot,
but if you want to share that.
Sure, yeah. So, sometimes what I've found being both on the candidate side and on
the interviewer side is that, especially when you are working through a third party, like
a hiring recruiter, they may not know all of the things, like they are given the job description,
and they may not know that, hey, I really need someone who has this skill, but if they don't
have this particular one, I'm willing to train on that, and sometimes the recruiter doesn't know
that information, and it might honestly change depending on how long the role is open for,
and so, like, I think what's best for the candidate in that case is to try to get
as close to whomever the actual hiring manager is as possible, and then just let them, like,
give them your resume and let them know your experience, because sometimes they'll look at
your resume and they would absolutely love to give you an interview where the recruiter might say,
oh, you don't meet X percent of the job description, therefore I'm not going to pass it on,
so it's just, it's one of those disconnects between having a third party sort of do that interfacing.
Yeah, I totally agree with that. We don't always do a good job specifying what, like, the key
skills that we want in a candidate, and yeah, some recruiters will just
say no or reject people that are really good.
Awesome, thank you. I know that hour just went by very quickly. Somebody just asked,
how do I stay informed about these calls? There's the data science hangout site that Libby just
shared, which has all of the recordings and upcoming sessions. If you want to just add it to
your calendar directly, you can use the link I just shared there as well, and that will just
add all of the recurring events. One other link I will share with you is, it's actually a new
Cordo doc that I just made, so I'm really proud of it right now, but it's just the upcoming community
events, so you can see both the meetups and the hangouts there as well. Yvonne, do you have to run
to another meeting right now? I don't want to keep you over another minute.
No, no, no. Okay, can I ask you one more question? Sure. Okay, there was an anonymous question that
was, do you do any independent continuing education to stay current with new technologies,
or does your company provide training? So, both, yes. We have some funding to
do our professional development, and I think the challenge here is the time, so when to do it,
and one of the things that has helped me a lot is to participate in events like this one.
I just hear new things, and that helps me, and I can hear tools that are being used,
and then I can spend some time to see more of the details of that,
so I really recommend you to, for example, keep going to these hangouts, go to meetups
or to other conferences. That will give you a lot of insight of what's going on,
and I try to do that. Sometimes, time doesn't allow me to do it, but for more
formal training, I will use those professional development funds that the company gives me,
and actually, I need to force myself to educate, because otherwise I won't do it, so sometimes
what I do is I commit to get a certification or I tell other people, like, hey, let's do a study
group, because otherwise I won't do it. I know that I will quit, so that's something that I do
to keep me on track, yeah. That's really helpful. Thank you so much for sharing your experience
with us. It was great to be able to dive deeper into the data engineering side as well.
Well, thank you. This was great. It was really fun, so thank you.
If people want to stay in touch with you, what's the best way? Is LinkedIn or Twitter preferred?
I'm unmuted. No, I think what I use the most is LinkedIn, so I can put my
maybe link here or here, so yeah. Awesome. I think that's the best way to stay in touch is
to just connect, and yeah, let's keep the conversation. Thank you.
Perfect. Thank you all. Have a great rest of the day.
Bye.